.Dd August 8, 2024
.Dt RANDOM_MULLVAD_ENDPOINTS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm random_mullvad_endpoints
.Nd extracts data corresponding to random Mullvad VPN endpoints
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm random_mullvad_endpoints
.Op Fl ahoN
.Op Fl l Ar regexp
.Op Fl n Ar integer
.Op Fl p Ar regexp
.Op Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility processes JSON provided by Mullvad's API and extracts data from
it. By default, data is extracted for 5 random endpoints. Endpoints are
selected using weighted random sampling without replacement.
.Pp
If
.Ar file
is a single dash
.Pq Sq -
or absent,
.Nm
reads from the standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Only include active Mullvad endpoints.
.It Fl h
Print usage information and exit.
.It Fl l Ar regexp
Only include endpoints with locations that match the given regular
expression.
.It Fl n Ar integer
Number of endpoints to select and return data for (defaults to 5).
.It Fl N
Print the hostname of each endpoint rather than the full JSON data.
.It Fl o
Only include Mullvad endpoints that are owned by Mullvad. Ownership
means servers that Mullvad has physical control of, as opposed to
servers that are rented.
.It Fl p Ar regexp
Only include providers that match the given regular expression.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Randomly select 5 Mullvad VPN endpoints from the mullvad.json file that
are active and located in the United States. Print out the corresponding
JSON.
.Pp
.Dl $ random_mullvad_endpoints -al `^us-[a-z]{3}$' mullvad.json
.Pp
Randomly select 10 Mullvad VPN endpoints from anywhere in the world,
reading from STDIN. Print out only the hostnames.
.Pp
.Dl $ cat mullvad.json | random_mullvad_endpoints -n 10 -N
.Pp
Randomly select 5 Mullvad VPN endpoints from anywhere in the world, but
they must be owned by Mullvad and the provider must be 31173. Print out
the corresponding JSON.
.Pp
.Dl $ random_mullvad_endpoints -op `^31173$' mullvad.json
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Lk https://api.mullvad.net/public/documentation/ "Mullvad API Documentation"
.It Lk https://api.mullvad.net/public/relays/wireguard/v2 "WireGuard Relays"
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written and maintained by
.An Ashlen Aq Mt dev@anthes.is .
